+++
date = "2016-09-22T19:01:06-05:00"
title = "From Design To Production"
description = "Leveraging Google Cloud Endpoints to deploy goa services"
author = "Raphael Simon"
weight = 2
layout = "blog"

[menu.main]
name = "Design To Production"
parent = "blog"
+++

Google recently
[announced](https://cloudplatform.googleblog.com/2016/09/manage-your-APIs-with-Google-Cloud-Endpoints.html)
the open beta release of the newest set of features in
[Google Cloud Endpoints](https://cloud.google.com/endpoints/). The part of the announcement that got
me especially excited was:

>We're also announcing support for the OpenAPI Specification. We're a founding member of the Open
>API Initiative (OAI), and recognize the value of standardizing how REST APIs are described.

In other words Google Cloud Endpoints can be completely configured using an OAI spec, one for
example that has been generated by goa! All the goa services ([goa.design](https://goa.design),
[swagger.goa.design](https://swagger.goa.design), cellar.goa.design and
[talks.goa.design](https://talks.goa.design)) already
run on top of the Google Cloud Platform so I had to give Google Cloud Endpoints a shot.

## First Experiment

My first thought was to re-deploy [goa-cellar](https://github.com/goadesign/goa-cellar) on Appengine
Flex so I could front it with Endpoints (it runs in Appengine Classic and Endpoints currently only
supports Flex). So I just tweaked the `app.yaml` file used by the `gcloud` tool to switch to Flex
and enable Endpoints:

```yaml
runtime: go

# Use Appengine Flex
vm: true

beta_settings:
  # Enable Google Cloud Endpoints API management.
  use_endpoints_api_management: true
  # Specify the Swagger API specification.
  endpoints_swagger_spec_file: public/swagger/swagger.yaml
```

Next I deployed the service with:

```
aedeploy gcloud beta app deploy
```

aannnnd it almost worked... The tool complains that the spec is invalid which is strange
because as far as I know goa generates valid specs. Digging further it appears Endpoints does not
understand the `file` type that one may use in the
[parameter](http://swagger.io/specification/#parameterObject) object. The goa-cellar example uses
file servers in the design which generates `file` parameters in the spec. I decided to
comment out the `public` resource from the design since that's the only resource using file servers.
I then re-ran `goagen` to produce a new spec:

```
goagen swagger -d github.com/goadesign/goa-cellar/design
```

Deployed again aannnnd it worked! I now have `goa-cellar` running in Appengine Flex and fronted by
Endpoints, pretty awesome stuff!

## Leveraging Endpoints Auth

OK now what? one of the main attraction of Endpoints is its ability to handle authentication.
Endpoints supports many different
[authentication schemes](https://cloud.google.com/endpoints/docs/authenticating-users) including API
keys and [JWT](https://jwt.io).

Now that we know it's possible to deploy to Endpoints using a goa generated OAI spec let's
create a new example that focuses on that. The service is based off of the
[adder](https://github.com/goadesign/examples/tree/master/adder) example and adds a new `auth`
resource that accepts requests secured by API keys or JWTs and returns a response detailing the
information that Endpoints parsed out of the authentication token.

Endpoints requires using OAI spec extensions to specify the JWT issuer and token retrieval URI
(`x-issuer` and `x-jwks_uri` respectively). It also adds a `x-security` field on path objects used
for specifying the expected value of the JWT token `aud` field. Good timing as support for OAI
extensions has just been [added](https://github.com/goadesign/goa/pull/783) to goa. Here is what the
design for the `jwt` action which is secured via JWT looks like:

```go
Action("jwt", func() {
    Security(JWT, func() {
        // Swagger extensions as per https://cloud.google.com/endpoints/docs/authenticating-users
        Metadata("swagger:extension:x-issuer", "client.goa-endpoints.appspot.com")
        Metadata("swagger:extension:x-jwks_uri", "https://www.googleapis.com/service_accounts/v1/jwk/account-1@goa-swagger.iam.gserviceaccount.com")
    })
    Routing(GET("info/jwt", func() {
        Metadata("swagger:extension:x-security", `json:[{"google_jwt":{"audiences":["goa-endpoints.appspot.com"]}}]`)
    }))
    Response(OK)
})
```

The `jwt` security scheme is defined as:

```go
// JWT defines a security scheme using Google Endpoints JWT.
var JWT = OAuth2Security("google_jwt", func() {
    // Dummy value to make OpenAPI spec valid, Endpoints take care of implementation.
    ImplicitFlow("/auth")
})
```

Note the use of the `OAuth2Security` DSL instead of the `JWTSecurity` DSL, that's because the
OAI spec consumed by Endpoints must make use of `oauth2`.

### Security Middleware

Overall not bad at all! The last piece remaining is to implement the security middleware that the
generated service code invokes upon handling a request made to a secured endpoint. goa generates
functions for registering the security middleware, we just need to implement it. Since
authentication is handled by Endpoints all the middleware has to do is extract the information from
the header it initialized, the complete code for the middleware is thus fairly simple:

```go
// Endpoints returns a goa middleware that extracts the user information initialized by
// Google Cloud Endpoints and stores it in the context.
// See https://cloud.google.com/endpoints/docs/authenticating-users
func Endpoints() goa.Middleware {
    return func(h goa.Handler) goa.Handler {
        return func(ctx context.Context, rw http.ResponseWriter, req *http.Request) error {
            var (
                logger = goa.ContextLogger(ctx)
                info   = req.Header.Get("X-Endpoint-API-UserInfo")
                user   = User{ID: "anonymous"}
            )
            if info != "" {
                // The X-Endpoint-API-UserInfo header is initialized
                // It consists of a Base64 encoded JSON payload.
                js, err := base64.StdEncoding.DecodeString(info)
                if err != nil {
                    logger.Error("invalid header Base64 encoding", "err", err)
                } else {
                    if err = json.Unmarshal(js, &user); err != nil {
                        logger.Error("invalid header JSON", "err", err)
                    }
                }
            }
            // Store the information in the context
            ctx = context.WithValue(ctx, userKey, &user)
            // Call the next handler
            return h(ctx, rw, req)
        }
    }
}
```

This loads the user information in a `User` struct:

```go
// User is the type that matches the data serialized into the user info header by Google Endpoints.
type User struct {
    ID     string
    Email  *string
    Issuer *string
}
```

Which the middleware package makes available via a function that extracts it from the request
context. Now all our controllers have to do is get that value and send it back:

```go
func (c *AuthController) JWT(ctx *app.JWTAuthContext) error {
    res := app.Auth(*middleware.UserInfo(ctx.Context))
    return ctx.OK(&res)
}
```

And that's it! a grand total of 2 lines of code for the controller and about 20 lines for the
middleware and we now have a service that can be secured using any of the schemes supported by
Endpoints!.

## Running the Example

The code above is available in the new
[endpoints](https://github.com/goadesign/examples/blob/master/endpoints)
example. The repo [README](https://github.com/goadesign/examples/blob/master/endpoints/README.md)
contains a set of step-by-step instructions to compile, run and deploy the example to Appengine Flex
and Endpoints. The OAI spec for the endpoints example service is available at
[swagger.goa.design](http://swagger.goa.design/?url=goadesign%2Fexamples%2Fendpoints%2Fdesign).

Once the service is deployed clients may make requests to it by using the proper security scheme
depending on the endpoint: `JWT` for the `/auth/jwt` endpoint and `API key` for all other endpoints.
API keys can be created in the [console](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials) either
via service accounts for server to server communication or simple project bound API keys.

Endpoints also makes it possible to share the API with developers in the
[Endpoints](https://console.cloud.google.com/endpoints) console settings. The users that the API has
been shared with can create API keys in any project they have access to.

### Using API Key Authentication

Back to goa, the generated client tool makes it possible to use API keys via the `--key` flag.
Making a request to the `basic` endpoint thus looks like:

```
cd tool/adder-cli
go build
 ./adder-cli basic auth --key YOUR_API_KEY
2016/09/22 19:17:31 [INFO] started id=OEclkaX4 GET=http://goa-endpoints.appspot.com/auth/info/basic?key=XXX
2016/09/22 19:17:31 [INFO] completed id=OEclkaX4 status=200 time=103.953623ms
{"id":"anonymous"}
```

Omitting the key results in a 401 like you'd expect:

```
./adder-cli basic auth
2016/09/22 10:27:43 [INFO] started id=Ig/FDyXs GET=http://goa-endpoints.appspot.com/auth/info/basic?key=
2016/09/22 10:27:43 [INFO] completed id=Ig/FDyXs status=401 time=86.605517ms
error: 401: {
 "code": 16,
 "message": "Method doesn't allow unregistered callers (callers without established identity).  Please use API Key or other form of API consumer identity to call this API.",
 "details": [
  {
   "@type": "type.googleapis.com/google.rpc.DebugInfo",
   "stackEntries": [],
   "detail": "service_control"
  }
 ]
}
```

### Using JWT Authentication

Let's move on to more interesting stuff: API endpoints secured via Google JWT.  Using JWT makes it
possible for Endpoints to extract user information from the token.  The JWT token `iss` and `aud`
fields must match the values specified in the OAI spec. These values are set in the design using
the `Metadata` DSL as shown above.

JWT tokens are usually created by the service and returned to clients so they may use them to
perform authentication.  Here we are going to use a service account JSON key file so we can create
JWT tokens client side. The [golang.org/x/oauth2](https://github.com/golang/oauth2) package contains
the [jws](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/oauth2/jws) sub-package which provides helper functions for
encoding valid JWT tokens. It also contains a [google](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/oauth2/google)
sub-package which contains functions for creating tokens from Google Developers service
account JSON key file.

The JSON key file can be downloaded from the [Google API
console](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/serviceaccountkey). The generated client
tool `main.go` needs to be tweaked to read the file and use the aforementioned packages to create
JWT tokens from the credentials in it. The code can be found in the [endpoints examples
repo](https://github.com/goadesign/examples/blob/master/endpoints/tool/adder-cli/jwt.go). Note that
editing the generated tool `main.go` file is OK because this file - like the files generated in the
service `main` package - is only generated once.

The code in the file above simply creates a goa client signer which reads the service account JSON
key file, extracts the private key from it and uses it to sign the JWT token it creates. The `--jwt`
flag creates and registers the JWT signer.

Let's try it:

```
./adder-cli jwt auth --jwt
2016/09/22 19:18:17 [INFO] started id=U/d+/6gG GET=http://goa-endpoints.appspot.com/auth/jwt
2016/09/22 19:18:17 [INFO] completed id=U/d+/6gG status=200 time=83.828797ms
{"id":"client@goa.design","issuer":"client.goa-endpoints.appspot.com"}
```

The response contains the information extracted by Endpoints from the token. Our service could use
that informationt to do authorization, very cool!

And just to make sure, not setting the JWT token does result in a `Unauthorized` response:

```
./adder-cli jwt auth
2016/09/22 19:26:24 [INFO] started id=ra3d2o5Y GET=http://goa-endpoints.appspot.com/auth/jwt
2016/09/22 19:26:24 [INFO] completed id=ra3d2o5Y status=401 time=89.411491ms
error: 401: {
 "code": 16,
 "message": "JWT validation failed: Missing or invalid credentials",
 "details": [
  {
   "@type": "type.googleapis.com/google.rpc.DebugInfo",
   "stackEntries": [],
   "detail": "auth"
  }
 ]
}
```

## Open Standards FTW

Overall the whole thing turned out to be a lot easier than I was expecting. For the most part "it
just works". goa takes care of the boilerplate that comes with implementing a (micro)service,
leveraging Endpoints does the same with its deployment. What's left to do is what matters and cannot
be automated: the actual domain logic.

This is a real testament to the power of open standards, certainly a success story for the [Open API
Initiative](https://openapis.org). It's also a good validation of the "Design first" approach
promoted by goa. I can't wait to see what other cool integration it will enable in the future. In
the mean time you get to reap the benefits: you can now deploy your goa services behind Google Cloud
Endpoints with no extra work!
