+++
date="2018-09-06T11:21:48-07:00"
description="github.com/goadesign/goa/codegen/generator"
+++


# generator
`import "github.com/goadesign/goa/codegen/generator"`

* [Overview](#pkg-overview)
* [Index](#pkg-index)

## <a name="pkg-overview">Overview</a>
Package generator contains the code generation algorithms for a service server,
client and OpenAPI specification.

### Server and Client
The code generated for the service server and client includes:


	- A `service' package that contains the declarations for the service
	  interfaces.
	- A `endpoint' package that contains the declarations for the endpoints
	  which wrap the service methods.
	- transport specific packages for each of the transports defined in the
	  design.

### OpenAPI
The OpenAPI generator generates a OpenAPI v2 specification for the service
REST endpoints. This generator requires the design to define the HTTP transport.




## <a name="pkg-index">Index</a>
* [Variables](#pkg-variables)
* [func Example(genpkg string, roots []eval.Root) ([]*codegen.File, error)](#Example)
* [func Generate(dir, cmd string) ([]string, error)](#Generate)
* [func OpenAPI(_ string, roots []eval.Root) (files []*codegen.File, err error)](#OpenAPI)
* [func Service(genpkg string, roots []eval.Root) ([]*codegen.File, error)](#Service)
* [func Transport(genpkg string, roots []eval.Root) ([]*codegen.File, error)](#Transport)
* [type Genfunc](#Genfunc)


#### <a name="pkg-files">Package files</a>
[docs.go](/src/github.com/goadesign/goa/codegen/generator/docs.go) [example.go](/src/github.com/goadesign/goa/codegen/generator/example.go) [generate.go](/src/github.com/goadesign/goa/codegen/generator/generate.go) [generators.go](/src/github.com/goadesign/goa/codegen/generator/generators.go) [openapi.go](/src/github.com/goadesign/goa/codegen/generator/openapi.go) [service.go](/src/github.com/goadesign/goa/codegen/generator/service.go) [transport.go](/src/github.com/goadesign/goa/codegen/generator/transport.go) 



## <a name="pkg-variables">Variables</a>
``` go
var Generators = generators
```
Generators returns the qualified paths (including the package name) to the
code generator functions for the given command, an error if the command is
not supported. Generators is a public variable so that external code (e.g.
plugins) may override the default generators.



## <a name="Example">func</a> [Example](/src/target/example.go?s=328:399#L14)
``` go
func Example(genpkg string, roots []eval.Root) ([]*codegen.File, error)
```
Example iterates through the roots and returns files that implement an
example service and client.



## <a name="Generate">func</a> [Generate](/src/target/generate.go?s=173:221#L14)
``` go
func Generate(dir, cmd string) ([]string, error)
```
Generate runs the code generation algorithms.



## <a name="OpenAPI">func</a> [OpenAPI](/src/target/openapi.go?s=350:426#L15)
``` go
func OpenAPI(_ string, roots []eval.Root) (files []*codegen.File, err error)
```
OpenAPI iterates through the roots and returns the files needed to render
the service OpenAPI spec. It returns an error if the roots slice does not
include a HTTP root.



## <a name="Service">func</a> [Service](/src/target/service.go?s=318:389#L15)
``` go
func Service(genpkg string, roots []eval.Root) ([]*codegen.File, error)
```
Service iterates through the roots and returns the files needed to render the
service code. It returns an error if the roots slice does not include a goa
design.



## <a name="Transport">func</a> [Transport](/src/target/transport.go?s=370:443#L15)
``` go
func Transport(genpkg string, roots []eval.Root) ([]*codegen.File, error)
```
Transport iterates through the roots and returns the files needed to render
the transport code. It returns an error if the roots slice does not include
at least one transport design roots.




## <a name="Genfunc">type</a> [Genfunc](/src/target/generators.go?s=154:230#L11)
``` go
type Genfunc func(genpkg string, roots []eval.Root) ([]*codegen.File, error)
```
Genfunc is the type of the functions invoked to generate code.














- - -
Generated by [godoc2md](https://godoc.org/github.com/davecheney/godoc2md)
