+++
title="goa/goagen/gen_main"
date="2016-01-31"
description="godoc for goa/goagen/gen_main"
categories=["godoc"]
tags=["godoc","gen_main"]
+++

# genmain
    import "github.com/goadesign/goa/goagen/gen_main"

Package genmain provides a generator for a skeleton goa application.
This generator generates the code for a basic "main" package and is mainly intended as a way to
bootstrap new applications.
The generator creates a main.go file and one file per resource listed in the API metadata.
If a file already exists it skips its creation unless the flag --force is provided on the command
line in which case it overrides the content of existing files.





## Variables
``` go
var (
    // AppName is the name of the generated application.
    AppName string

    // TargetPackage is the name of the generated Go package.
    TargetPackage string

    // Force is true if pre-existing files should be overwritten during generation.
    Force bool
)
```

## func Generate
``` go
func Generate(api *design.APIDefinition) (files []string, err error)
```
Generate is the generator entry point called by the meta generator.



## type Command
``` go
type Command struct {
    *codegen.BaseCommand
}
```
Command is the goa application code generator command line data structure.
It implements meta.Command.









### func NewCommand
``` go
func NewCommand() *Command
```
NewCommand instantiates a new command.




### func (\*Command) RegisterFlags
``` go
func (c *Command) RegisterFlags(r codegen.FlagRegistry)
```
RegisterFlags registers the command line flags with the given registry.



### func (\*Command) Run
``` go
func (c *Command) Run() ([]string, error)
```
Run simply calls the meta generator.



## type Generator
``` go
type Generator struct {
    // contains filtered or unexported fields
}
```
Generator is the application code generator.











### func (\*Generator) Cleanup
``` go
func (g *Generator) Cleanup()
```
Cleanup removes all the files generated by this generator during the last invokation of Generate.



### func (\*Generator) Generate
``` go
func (g *Generator) Generate(api *design.APIDefinition) (_ []string, err error)
```
Generate produces the skeleton main.









- - -
Generated by [godoc2md](http://godoc.org/github.com/davecheney/godoc2md)
