+++
title="goa"
date="2016-01-31"
description="godoc for goa"
categories=["godoc"]
tags=["godoc","goa"]
+++

# goa
    import "github.com/goadesign/goa"

Package goa provides the runtime support for goa web services. See also <a href="http://goa.design">http://goa.design</a>.

package design: <a href="https://godoc.org/github.com/goadesign/goa/design">https://godoc.org/github.com/goadesign/goa/design</a>

package dsl: <a href="https://godoc.org/github.com/goadesign/goa/design/dsl">https://godoc.org/github.com/goadesign/goa/design/dsl</a>

### Code Generation
goa service development begins with writing the *design* of a service. The design is described using
the goa language implemented by the github.com/goadesign/goa/design/dsl package. The goagen tool
consumes the metadata produced from executing the design language to generate service specific code
that glues the underlying HTTP server with action specific code and data structures.

The goa package contains supporting functionality for the generated code including basic request
and response state management through the Context data structure, error handling via the
service and controller ErrorHandler field, middleware support via the Middleware data structure as
well as input (and output) format validation algorithms.

### Request Context
The Context data structure provides access to both the request and response state. It implements
the golang.org/x/net/Context interface so that deadlines and cancelation signals may also be
implemented with it.

The request state is accessible through the Get, GetMany and Payload methods which return the values
of the request parameters, query strings and request body. Action specific contexts wrap Context and
expose properly typed fields corresponding to the request parameters and body data structure
descriptions appearing in the design.

The response state can be accessed through the ResponseStatus, ResponseLength and Header methods.
The Context type implements the http.ResponseWriter interface and thus action contexts can be used
in places http.ResponseWriter can. Action contexts provide action specific helper methods that write
the responses as described in the design optionally taking an instance of the media type for
responses that contain a body.

Here is an example showing an "update" action corresponding to following design (extract):


	Resource("bottle", func() {
		DefaultMedia(Bottle)
		Action("update", func() {
			Params(func() {
				Param("bottleID", Integer)
			})
			Payload(UpdateBottlePayload)
			Response(OK)
			Response(NotFound)
		})
	})

The action signature generated by goagen is:


	type BottleController interface {
		goa.Controller
		Update(*UpdateBottleContext) error
	}

where UpdateBottleContext is:


		type UpdateBottleContext struct {
	        	*goa.Context
	        	BottleID  int
	        	Payload   *UpdateBottlePayload
		}

and implements:


	func (ctx *UpdateBottleContext) OK(resp *Bottle) error
	func (ctx *UpdateBottleContext) NotFound() error

The definitions of the Bottle and UpdateBottlePayload data structures are ommitted for brievity.

### Controllers
There is one controller interface generated per resource defined via the design language. The
interface exposes the controller actions as well as methods to set controller specific middleware
and error handlers (see below). User code must provide data structures that implement these
interfaces when mounting a controller onto a service. The controller data structure should include
an anonymous field of type *goa.ApplicationController which takes care of implementing the
middleware and error handler handling.

### Error Handling
The controller action methods generated by goagen such as the Update method of the BottleController
interface shown above all return an error value. The controller or service-wide error handler (if no
controller specific error handler) function is invoked whenever the value returned by a controller
action is not nil. The handler gets both the request context and the error as argument.

The default handler implementation returns a response with status code 500 containing the error
message in the body. A different error handler can be specificied using the SetErrorHandler
function on either a controller or service wide. goa comes with an alternative error handler - the
TerseErrorHandler - which also returns a response with status 500 but does not write the error
message to the body of the response.

### Middleware
A goa middleware is a function that takes and returns a Handler. A Handler is a the low level
function which handles incoming HTTP requests. goagen generates the handlers code so each handler
creates the action specific context and calls the controller action with it.

Middleware can be added to a goa service or a specific controller using the Service type Use method.
goa comes with a few stock middleware that handle common needs such as logging, panic recovery or
using the RequestID header to trace requests across multiple services.

### Validation
The goa design language documented in the dsl package makes it possible to attach validations to
data structure definitions. One specific type of validation consists of defining the format that a
data structure string field must follow. Example of formats include email, data time, hostnames etc.
The ValidateFormat function provides the implementation for the format validation invoked from the
code generated by goagen.

Package goa standardizes on structured error responses: a request that fails because of
invalid input or unexpected condition produces a response that contains one or more structured
error(s). Each error object has three keys: a id (number), a title and a message. The title
for a given id is always the same, the intent is to provide a human friendly categorization.
The message is specific to the error occurrence and provides additional details that often
include contextual information (name of parameters etc.).

The basic data structure backing errors is TypedError which simply contains the id and message.
Multiple errors (not just TypedError instances) can be encapsulated in a MultiError. Both
TypedError and MultiError implement the error interface, the Error methods return valid JSON
that can be written directly to a response body.

The code generated by goagen calls the helper functions exposed in this file when it encounters
invalid data (wrong type, validation errors etc.) such as InvalidParamTypeError,
InvalidAttributeTypeError etc. These methods take and return an error which is a MultiError that
gets built over time. The final MultiError object then gets serialized into the response and sent
back to the client. The response status code is inferred from the type wrapping the error object:
a BadRequestError produces a 400 status code while any other error produce a 500. This behavior
can be overridden by setting a custom ErrorHandler in the application.




## Constants
``` go
const (
    // ErrInvalidParamType is the error produced by the generated code when
    // a request parameter type does not match the design.
    ErrInvalidParamType = iota + 1

    // ErrMissingParam is the error produced by the generated code when a
    // required request parameter is missing.
    ErrMissingParam

    // ErrInvalidAttributeType is the error produced by the generated
    // code when a data structure attribute type does not match the design
    // definition.
    ErrInvalidAttributeType

    // ErrMissingAttribute is the error produced by the generated
    // code when a data structure attribute required by the design
    // definition is missing.
    ErrMissingAttribute

    // ErrInvalidEnumValue is the error produced by the generated code when
    // a values does not match one of the values listed in the attribute
    // definition as being valid (i.e. not part of the enum).
    ErrInvalidEnumValue

    // ErrMissingHeader is the error produced by the generated code when a
    // required header is missing.
    ErrMissingHeader

    // ErrInvalidFormat is the error produced by the generated code when
    // a value does not match the format specified in the attribute
    // definition.
    ErrInvalidFormat

    // ErrInvalidPattern is the error produced by the generated code when
    // a value does not match the regular expression specified in the
    // attribute definition.
    ErrInvalidPattern

    // ErrInvalidRange is the error produced by the generated code when
    // a value is less than the minimum specified in the design definition
    // or more than the maximum.
    ErrInvalidRange

    // ErrInvalidLength is the error produced by the generated code when
    // a value is a slice with less elements than the minimum length
    // specified in the design definition or more elements than the
    // maximum length.
    ErrInvalidLength

    // ErrInvalidVersion is the error rendered by the default mux when a
    // request specifies an invalid version.
    ErrInvalidVersion
)
```

## Variables
``` go
var (
    // Log is the global logger from which other loggers (e.g. request specific loggers) are
    // derived. Configure it by setting its handler prior to calling New.
    // See https://godoc.org/github.com/inconshreveable/log15
    Log log.Logger

    // RootContext is the root context from which all request contexts are derived.
    // Set values in the root context prior to starting the server to make these values
    // available to all request handlers:
    //
    //	goa.RootContext = goa.RootContext.WithValue(key, value)
    //
    RootContext context.Context
)
```
``` go
var InterruptSignals = []os.Signal{
    os.Signal(syscall.SIGINT),
    os.Signal(syscall.SIGTERM),
    os.Signal(syscall.SIGQUIT),
}
```
InterruptSignals is the list of signals that initiate graceful shutdown.
Note that only SIGINT is supported on Windows so this list should be
overridden by the caller when running on that platform.


## func Cancel
``` go
func Cancel()
```
Cancel sends a cancellation signal to all handlers through the action context.
see <a href="https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/net/context">https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/net/context</a> for details on how to handle the signal.


## func DefaultErrorHandler
``` go
func DefaultErrorHandler(ctx *Context, e error)
```
DefaultErrorHandler returns a 400 response for request validation errors (instances of
BadRequestError) and a 500 response for other errors. It writes the error message to the
response body in both cases.


## func DefaultMissingVersionHandler
``` go
func DefaultMissingVersionHandler(ctx *Context, version string)
```
DefaultMissingVersionHandler returns a 400 response with a typed error in the body containing
the name of the version that was targeted by the request.


## func Fatal
``` go
func Fatal(msg string, ctx ...interface{})
```
Fatal logs a critical message and exits the process with status code 1.
This function is meant to be used by initialization code to prevent the application from even
starting up when something is obviously wrong.
In particular this function should probably not be used when serving requests.


## func InvalidAttributeTypeError
``` go
func InvalidAttributeTypeError(ctx string, val interface{}, expected string, err error) error
```
InvalidAttributeTypeError appends a typed error of id ErrIncompatibleType
to err and returns it.


## func InvalidEnumValueError
``` go
func InvalidEnumValueError(ctx string, val interface{}, allowed []interface{}, err error) error
```
InvalidEnumValueError appends a typed error of id ErrInvalidEnumValue to
err and returns it.


## func InvalidFormatError
``` go
func InvalidFormatError(ctx, target string, format Format, formatError, err error) error
```
InvalidFormatError appends a typed error of id ErrInvalidFormat to err and
returns it.


## func InvalidLengthError
``` go
func InvalidLengthError(ctx string, target interface{}, ln, value int, min bool, err error) error
```
InvalidLengthError appends a typed error of id ErrInvalidLength to err and
returns it.


## func InvalidParamTypeError
``` go
func InvalidParamTypeError(name string, val interface{}, expected string, err error) error
```
InvalidParamTypeError appends a typed error of id ErrInvalidParamType to
err and returns it.


## func InvalidPatternError
``` go
func InvalidPatternError(ctx, target string, pattern string, err error) error
```
InvalidPatternError appends a typed error of id ErrInvalidPattern to err and
returns it.


## func InvalidRangeError
``` go
func InvalidRangeError(ctx string, target interface{}, value int, min bool, err error) error
```
InvalidRangeError appends a typed error of id ErrInvalidRange to err and
returns it.


## func MissingAttributeError
``` go
func MissingAttributeError(ctx, name string, err error) error
```
MissingAttributeError appends a typed error of id ErrMissingAttribute to
err and returns it.


## func MissingHeaderError
``` go
func MissingHeaderError(name string, err error) error
```
MissingHeaderError appends a typed error of id ErrMissingHeader to err and
returns it.


## func MissingParamError
``` go
func MissingParamError(name string, err error) error
```
MissingParamError appends a typed error of id ErrMissingParam to err and
returns it.


## func ReportError
``` go
func ReportError(err error, err2 error) error
```
ReportError coerces the first argument into a MultiError then appends the second argument and
returns the resulting MultiError.


## func TerseErrorHandler
``` go
func TerseErrorHandler(ctx *Context, e error)
```
TerseErrorHandler behaves like DefaultErrorHandler except that it does not write to the response
body for internal errors.


## func ValidateFormat
``` go
func ValidateFormat(f Format, val string) error
```
ValidateFormat validates a string against a standard format.
It returns nil if the string conforms to the format, an error otherwise.
The format specification follows the json schema draft 4 validation extension.
see <a href="http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor105">http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor105</a>
Supported formats are:
- "date-time": RFC3339 date time value
- "email": RFC5322 email address
- "hostname": RFC1035 Internet host name
- "ipv4" and "ipv6": RFC2673 and RFC2373 IP address values
- "uri": RFC3986 URI value
- "mac": IEEE 802 MAC-48, EUI-48 or EUI-64 MAC address value
- "cidr": RFC4632 and RFC4291 CIDR notation IP address value
- "regexp": Regular expression syntax accepted by RE2


## func ValidatePattern
``` go
func ValidatePattern(p string, val string) bool
```
ValidatePattern returns an error if val does not match the regular expression p.
It makes an effort to minimize the number of times the regular expression needs to be compiled.



## type Application
``` go
type Application struct {
    log.Logger // Application logger
    // contains filtered or unexported fields
}
```
Application represents a goa application. At the basic level an application consists of
a set of controllers, each implementing a given resource actions. goagen generates
global functions - one per resource - that make it possible to mount the corresponding
controller onto an application. An application contains the middleware, logger and error
handler shared by all its controllers. Setting up an application might look like:


	api := goa.New("my api")
	api.Use(SomeMiddleware())
	rc := NewResourceController()
	rc.Use(SomeOtherMiddleware())
	app.MountResourceController(api, rc)
	api.ListenAndServe(":80")

where NewResourceController returns an object that implements the resource actions as
defined by the corresponding interface generated by goagen.











### func (Application) Decode
``` go
func (ver Application) Decode(v interface{}, body io.Reader, contentType string) error
```
Decode uses registered Decoders to unmarshal a body based on the contentType



### func (Application) DecodeRequest
``` go
func (ver Application) DecodeRequest(ctx *Context, v interface{}) error
```
DecodeRequest retrives the request body and `Content-Type` header and uses Decode
to unmarshal into the provided `interface{}`



### func (Application) EncodeResponse
``` go
func (ver Application) EncodeResponse(ctx *Context, v interface{}) error
```
EncodeResponse uses registered Encoders to marshal the response body based on the request
`Accept` header and writes it to the http.ResponseWriter



### func (\*Application) ErrorHandler
``` go
func (app *Application) ErrorHandler() ErrorHandler
```
ErrorHandler returns the currently set error handler.



### func (\*Application) ListenAndServe
``` go
func (app *Application) ListenAndServe(addr string) error
```
ListenAndServe starts a HTTP server and sets up a listener on the given host/port.



### func (\*Application) ListenAndServeTLS
``` go
func (app *Application) ListenAndServeTLS(addr, certFile, keyFile string) error
```
ListenAndServeTLS starts a HTTPS server and sets up a listener on the given host/port.



### func (\*Application) Name
``` go
func (app *Application) Name() string
```
Name returns the application name.



### func (\*Application) NewController
``` go
func (app *Application) NewController(resName string) Controller
```
NewController returns a controller for the given resource. This method is mainly intended for
use by the generated code. User code shouldn't have to call it directly.



### func (\*Application) ServeFiles
``` go
func (app *Application) ServeFiles(path, filename string) error
```
ServeFiles replies to the request with the contents of the named file or directory. The logic
for what to do when the filename points to a file vs. a directory is the same as the standard
http package ServeFile function. The path may end with a wildcard that matches the rest of the
URL (e.g. *filepath). If it does the matching path is appended to filename to form the full file
path, so:


	ServeFiles("/index.html", "/www/data/index.html")

Returns the content of the file "/www/data/index.html" when requests are sent to "/index.html"
and:


	ServeFiles("/assets/*filepath", "/www/data/assets")

returns the content of the file "/www/data/assets/x/y/z" when requests are sent to
"/assets/x/y/z".



### func (\*Application) ServeMux
``` go
func (app *Application) ServeMux() ServeMux
```
ServeMux returns the top level service mux.



### func (Application) SetDecoder
``` go
func (ver Application) SetDecoder(f DecoderFactory, makeDefault bool, contentTypes ...string)
```
SetDecoder sets a specific decoder to be used for the specified content types. If
a decoder is already registered, it will be overwritten.



### func (Application) SetEncoder
``` go
func (ver Application) SetEncoder(f EncoderFactory, makeDefault bool, contentTypes ...string)
```
SetEncoder sets a specific encoder to be used for the specified content types. If
an encoder is already registered, it will be overwritten.



### func (\*Application) SetErrorHandler
``` go
func (app *Application) SetErrorHandler(handler ErrorHandler)
```
SetErrorHandler defines an application wide error handler.
The default error handler (DefaultErrorHandler) responds with a 500 status code and the error
message in the response body.
TerseErrorHandler provides an alternative implementation that does not write the error message
to the response body for internal errors (e.g. for production).
Set it with SetErrorHandler(TerseErrorHandler).
Controller specific error handlers should be set using the Controller type SetErrorHandler
method instead.



### func (\*Application) SetMissingVersionHandler
``` go
func (app *Application) SetMissingVersionHandler(handler MissingVersionHandler)
```
SetMissingVersionHandler registers the service missing version handler.



### func (\*Application) Use
``` go
func (app *Application) Use(m Middleware)
```
Use adds a middleware to the application wide middleware chain.
See NewMiddleware for wrapping goa and http handlers into goa middleware.
goa comes with a set of commonly used middleware, see middleware.go.
Controller specific middleware should be mounted using the Controller type Use method instead.



### func (\*Application) Version
``` go
func (app *Application) Version(name string) ServiceVersion
```
Version returns an object that implements ServiceVersion based on the version name.
If there is no version registered, it will instantiate a new version.



### func (Application) VersionName
``` go
func (ver Application) VersionName() string
```
VersionName returns the version name.



## type ApplicationController
``` go
type ApplicationController struct {
    log.Logger // Controller logger
    // contains filtered or unexported fields
}
```
ApplicationController provides the common state and behavior for generated controllers.











### func (\*ApplicationController) ErrorHandler
``` go
func (ctrl *ApplicationController) ErrorHandler() ErrorHandler
```
ErrorHandler returns the currently set error handler.



### func (\*ApplicationController) HandleError
``` go
func (ctrl *ApplicationController) HandleError(ctx *Context, err error)
```
HandleError invokes the controller error handler or - if there isn't one - the service error
handler.



### func (\*ApplicationController) HandleFunc
``` go
func (ctrl *ApplicationController) HandleFunc(name string, h, d Handler) HandleFunc
```
HandleFunc wraps al request handler into a HandleFunc. The HandleFunc initializes the
request context by loading the request state, invokes the handler and in case of error invokes
the controller (if there is one) or application error handler.
This function is intended for the controller generated code. User code should not need to call
it directly.



### func (\*ApplicationController) MiddlewareChain
``` go
func (ctrl *ApplicationController) MiddlewareChain() []Middleware
```
MiddlewareChain returns the controller middleware chain.



### func (\*ApplicationController) SetErrorHandler
``` go
func (ctrl *ApplicationController) SetErrorHandler(handler ErrorHandler)
```
SetErrorHandler defines a controller specific error handler. When a controller action returns an
error goa checks whether the controller is equipped with a error handler and if so calls it with
the error given as argument. If there is no controller error handler then goa calls the
application wide error handler instead.



### func (\*ApplicationController) Use
``` go
func (ctrl *ApplicationController) Use(m Middleware)
```
Use adds a middleware to the controller.
See NewMiddleware for wrapping goa and http handlers into goa middleware.
goa comes with a set of commonly used middleware, see middleware.go.



## type BadRequestError
``` go
type BadRequestError struct {
    Actual error
}
```
BadRequestError is the type of errors that result in a response with status code 400.









### func NewBadRequestError
``` go
func NewBadRequestError(err error) *BadRequestError
```
NewBadRequestError wraps the given error into a BadRequestError.




### func (\*BadRequestError) Error
``` go
func (b *BadRequestError) Error() string
```
Error implements error.



## type BasicSigner
``` go
type BasicSigner struct {
    // Username is the basic auth user.
    Username string
    // Password is err guess what? the basic auth password.
    Password string
}
```
BasicSigner implements basic auth.











### func (\*BasicSigner) RegisterFlags
``` go
func (s *BasicSigner) RegisterFlags(app *cobra.Command)
```
RegisterFlags adds the "--user" and "--pass" flags to the client tool.



### func (\*BasicSigner) Sign
``` go
func (s *BasicSigner) Sign(req *http.Request) error
```
Sign adds the basic auth header to the request.



## type Client
``` go
type Client struct {
    // Logger is the logger used to log client requests.
    log15.Logger
    // Client is the underlying http client.
    *http.Client
    // Signers contains the ordered list of request signers. A signer may add headers,
    // cookies etc. to a request generally to perform auth.
    Signers []Signer
    // Scheme is the HTTP scheme used to make requests to the API host.
    Scheme string
    // Host is the service hostname.
    Host string
    // UserAgent is the user agent set in requests made by the client.
    UserAgent string
    // Dump indicates whether to dump request response.
    Dump bool
}
```
Client is the command client data structure for all goa service clients.









### func NewClient
``` go
func NewClient() *Client
```
NewClient create a new API client.




### func (\*Client) Do
``` go
func (c *Client) Do(req *http.Request) (*http.Response, error)
```
Do wraps the underlying http client Do method and adds logging.



## type Context
``` go
type Context struct {
    context.Context // Underlying context
    log.Logger      // Context logger
}
```
Context is the object that provides access to the underlying HTTP request and response state.
Context implements http.ResponseWriter and also provides helper methods for writing HTTP responses.
It also implements the context.Context interface described at <a href="http://blog.golang.org/context">http://blog.golang.org/context</a>.









### func NewContext
``` go
func NewContext(gctx context.Context,
    service Service,
    req *http.Request,
    rw http.ResponseWriter,
    params url.Values) *Context
```
NewContext builds a goa context from the given context.Context and request state.
If gctx is nil then context.Background is used instead.




### func (\*Context) AllParams
``` go
func (ctx *Context) AllParams() url.Values
```
AllParams return all URL and querystring parameters.



### func (\*Context) BadRequest
``` go
func (ctx *Context) BadRequest(err *BadRequestError) error
```
BadRequest sends a HTTP response with status code 400 and the given error as body.



### func (\*Context) Bug
``` go
func (ctx *Context) Bug(format string, a ...interface{}) error
```
Bug sends a HTTP response with status code 500 and the given body.
The body can be set using a format and substituted values a la fmt.Printf.



### func (\*Context) Get
``` go
func (ctx *Context) Get(name string) string
```
Get returns the param or querystring value with the given name.



### func (\*Context) GetMany
``` go
func (ctx *Context) GetMany(name string) []string
```
GetMany returns the querystring values with the given name or nil if there aren't any.



### func (\*Context) GetNames
``` go
func (ctx *Context) GetNames() []string
```
GetNames returns all the querystring and URL parameter names.



### func (\*Context) Header
``` go
func (ctx *Context) Header() http.Header
```
Header returns the response header. It implements the http.ResponseWriter interface.



### func (\*Context) RawPayload
``` go
func (ctx *Context) RawPayload() interface{}
```
RawPayload returns the deserialized request body or nil if body is empty.



### func (\*Context) Request
``` go
func (ctx *Context) Request() *http.Request
```
Request returns the underlying HTTP request.



### func (\*Context) Respond
``` go
func (ctx *Context) Respond(code int, body interface{}) error
```
Respond serializes the given body matching the request Accept header against the service
encoders. It uses the default service encoder if no match is found.



### func (\*Context) RespondBytes
``` go
func (ctx *Context) RespondBytes(code int, body []byte) error
```
RespondBytes writes the given HTTP status code and response body.
This method should only be called once per request.



### func (\*Context) ResponseLength
``` go
func (ctx *Context) ResponseLength() int
```
ResponseLength returns the response body length in bytes if the response was written to the
context via one of the response methods (Respond, JSON, BadRequest, Bug), 0 otherwise.



### func (\*Context) ResponseStatus
``` go
func (ctx *Context) ResponseStatus() int
```
ResponseStatus returns the response status if it was set via one of the context response
methods (Respond, JSON, BadRequest, Bug), 0 otherwise.



### func (\*Context) ResponseWritten
``` go
func (ctx *Context) ResponseWritten() bool
```
ResponseWritten returns true if an HTTP response was written.



### func (\*Context) Service
``` go
func (ctx *Context) Service() Service
```
Service returns the underlying service.



### func (\*Context) SetPayload
``` go
func (ctx *Context) SetPayload(payload interface{})
```
SetPayload initializes the unmarshaled request body value.



### func (\*Context) SetResponseWriter
``` go
func (ctx *Context) SetResponseWriter(rw http.ResponseWriter) http.ResponseWriter
```
SetResponseWriter overrides the context underlying response writer. It returns the response
writer that was previously set.



### func (\*Context) SetValue
``` go
func (ctx *Context) SetValue(key, val interface{})
```
SetValue sets the value associated with key in the context.
The value can be retrieved using the Value method.
Note that this changes the underlying context.Context object and thus clients holding a reference
to that won't be able to access the new value. It's probably a bad idea to hold a reference to
the inner context anyway...



### func (\*Context) Write
``` go
func (ctx *Context) Write(body []byte) (int, error)
```
Write writes the HTTP response body. It implements the http.ResponseWriter interface.



### func (\*Context) WriteHeader
``` go
func (ctx *Context) WriteHeader(code int)
```
WriteHeader writes the HTTP status code to the response. It implements the
http.ResponseWriter interface.



## type Controller
``` go
type Controller interface {
    log.Logger

    // Use adds a middleware to the controller middleware chain.
    // It is a convenient method for doing append(ctrl.MiddlewareChain(), m)
    Use(Middleware)

    // MiddlewareChain returns the controller middleware chain including the
    // service-wide middleware.
    MiddlewareChain() []Middleware

    // ErrorHandler returns the currently set error handler.
    ErrorHandler() ErrorHandler

    // SetErrorHandler sets the controller specific error handler.
    SetErrorHandler(ErrorHandler)

    // HandleFunc returns a HandleFunc from the given handler
    // name is used solely for logging.
    HandleFunc(name string, h, d Handler) HandleFunc
}
```
Controller is the interface implemented by all goa controllers.
A controller implements a given resource actions. There is a one-to-one relationship
between designed resources and generated controllers.
Controllers may override the service wide error handler and be equipped with controller
specific middleware.











## type DecodeFunc
``` go
type DecodeFunc func(*Context, io.ReadCloser, interface{}) error
```
DecodeFunc is the function that initialize the unmarshaled payload from the request body.











## type Decoder
``` go
type Decoder interface {
    Decode(v interface{}) error
}
```
A Decoder unmarshals an io.Reader into an interface











## type DecoderFactory
``` go
type DecoderFactory interface {
    NewDecoder(r io.Reader) Decoder
}
```
A DecoderFactory generates custom decoders









### func GobDecoderFactory
``` go
func GobDecoderFactory() DecoderFactory
```
GobDecoderFactory returns a struct that can generate new gob.Decoders


### func JSONDecoderFactory
``` go
func JSONDecoderFactory() DecoderFactory
```
JSONDecoderFactory returns a struct that can generate new json.Decoders


### func XMLDecoderFactory
``` go
func XMLDecoderFactory() DecoderFactory
```
XMLDecoderFactory returns a struct that can generate new xml.Decoders




## type DefaultMux
``` go
type DefaultMux struct {
    SelectVersionFunc SelectVersionFunc
    // contains filtered or unexported fields
}
```
DefaultMux is the default goa mux. It dispatches requests to the appropriate version mux
using a SelectVersionFunc. The default func is DefaultVersionFunc, change it with
SelectVersion.











### func (DefaultMux) Handle
``` go
func (m DefaultMux) Handle(method, path string, handle HandleFunc)
```
Handle sets the handler for the given verb and path.



### func (DefaultMux) Lookup
``` go
func (m DefaultMux) Lookup(method, path string) HandleFunc
```
Lookup returns the HandleFunc associated with the given method and path.



### func (\*DefaultMux) SelectVersion
``` go
func (m *DefaultMux) SelectVersion(sv SelectVersionFunc)
```
SelectVersion sets the func used to compute the API version targetted by a request.



### func (\*DefaultMux) ServeHTTP
``` go
func (m *DefaultMux) ServeHTTP(rw http.ResponseWriter, req *http.Request)
```
ServeHTTP is the function called back by the underlying HTTP server to handle incoming requests.



## type Encoder
``` go
type Encoder interface {
    Encode(v interface{}) error
}
```
An Encoder marshals from an interface into an io.Writer











## type EncoderFactory
``` go
type EncoderFactory interface {
    NewEncoder(w io.Writer) Encoder
}
```
A EncoderFactory generates custom encoders









### func GobEncoderFactory
``` go
func GobEncoderFactory() EncoderFactory
```
GobEncoderFactory returns a struct that can generate new gob.Encoders


### func JSONEncoderFactory
``` go
func JSONEncoderFactory() EncoderFactory
```
JSONEncoderFactory returns a struct that can generate new json.Encoders


### func XMLEncoderFactory
``` go
func XMLEncoderFactory() EncoderFactory
```
XMLEncoderFactory returns a struct that can generate new xml.Encoders




## type Encoding
``` go
type Encoding interface {
    // DecodeRequest uses registered Decoders to unmarshal the request body based on
    // the request "Content-Type" header.
    DecodeRequest(ctx *Context, v interface{}) error

    // EncodeResponse uses registered Encoders to marshal the response body based on the
    // request "Accept" header and writes the result to the http.ResponseWriter.
    EncodeResponse(ctx *Context, v interface{}) error

    // SetDecoder registers a decoder for the given content types.
    // If makeDefault is true then the decoder is used to decode payloads where none of
    // the registered decoders support the request content type.
    SetDecoder(f DecoderFactory, makeDefault bool, contentTypes ...string)

    // SetEncoder registers an encoder for the given content types.
    // If makeDefault is true then the encoder is used to encode bodies where none of
    // the registered encoders match the request "Accept" header.
    SetEncoder(f EncoderFactory, makeDefault bool, contentTypes ...string)
}
```
Encoding contains the encoding and decoding support.











## type ErrorHandler
``` go
type ErrorHandler func(*Context, error)
```
ErrorHandler defines the application error handler signature.











## type ErrorID
``` go
type ErrorID int
```
ErrorID is an enum listing the possible types of errors.











### func (ErrorID) Title
``` go
func (k ErrorID) Title() string
```
Title returns a human friendly error title



## type Format
``` go
type Format string
```
Format defines a validation format.



``` go
const (
    // FormatDateTime defines RFC3339 date time values.
    FormatDateTime Format = "date-time"

    // FormatEmail defines RFC5322 email addresses.
    FormatEmail = "email"

    // FormatHostname defines RFC1035 Internet host names.
    FormatHostname = "hostname"

    // FormatIPv4 defines RFC2373 IPv4 address values.
    FormatIPv4 = "ipv4"

    // FormatIPv6 defines RFC2373 IPv6 address values.
    FormatIPv6 = "ipv6"

    // FormatURI defines RFC3986 URI values.
    FormatURI = "uri"

    // FormatMAC defines IEEE 802 MAC-48, EUI-48 or EUI-64 MAC address values.
    FormatMAC = "mac"

    // FormatCIDR defines RFC4632 and RFC4291 CIDR notation IP address values.
    FormatCIDR = "cidr"

    // FormatRegexp Regexp defines regular expression syntax accepted by RE2.
    FormatRegexp = "regexp"
)
```








## type GracefulApplication
``` go
type GracefulApplication struct {
    *Application
    sync.Mutex

    // Interrupted is true if the application is in the process of shutting down.
    Interrupted bool

    // CancelOnShutdown tells whether existing requests should be canceled when shutdown is
    // triggered (true) or whether to wait until the requests complete (false).
    CancelOnShutdown bool
    // contains filtered or unexported fields
}
```
GracefulApplication is a goa application using a graceful shutdown server.
When sending any of the signals listed in InterruptSignals to the process GracefulApplication:

* disables keepalive connections.

* closes the listening socket, allowing another process to listen on that port immediately.

* calls Cancel, signaling all active handlers.











### func (GracefulApplication) Decode
``` go
func (ver GracefulApplication) Decode(v interface{}, body io.Reader, contentType string) error
```
Decode uses registered Decoders to unmarshal a body based on the contentType



### func (GracefulApplication) DecodeRequest
``` go
func (ver GracefulApplication) DecodeRequest(ctx *Context, v interface{}) error
```
DecodeRequest retrives the request body and `Content-Type` header and uses Decode
to unmarshal into the provided `interface{}`



### func (GracefulApplication) EncodeResponse
``` go
func (ver GracefulApplication) EncodeResponse(ctx *Context, v interface{}) error
```
EncodeResponse uses registered Encoders to marshal the response body based on the request
`Accept` header and writes it to the http.ResponseWriter



### func (\*GracefulApplication) ListenAndServe
``` go
func (gapp *GracefulApplication) ListenAndServe(addr string) error
```
ListenAndServe starts the HTTP server and sets up a listener on the given host/port.



### func (\*GracefulApplication) ListenAndServeTLS
``` go
func (gapp *GracefulApplication) ListenAndServeTLS(addr, certFile, keyFile string) error
```
ListenAndServeTLS starts a HTTPS server and sets up a listener on the given host/port.



### func (GracefulApplication) SetDecoder
``` go
func (ver GracefulApplication) SetDecoder(f DecoderFactory, makeDefault bool, contentTypes ...string)
```
SetDecoder sets a specific decoder to be used for the specified content types. If
a decoder is already registered, it will be overwritten.



### func (GracefulApplication) SetEncoder
``` go
func (ver GracefulApplication) SetEncoder(f EncoderFactory, makeDefault bool, contentTypes ...string)
```
SetEncoder sets a specific encoder to be used for the specified content types. If
an encoder is already registered, it will be overwritten.



### func (\*GracefulApplication) Shutdown
``` go
func (gapp *GracefulApplication) Shutdown() bool
```
Shutdown initiates graceful shutdown of the running server once. Returns true on
initial shutdown and false if already shutting down.



### func (GracefulApplication) VersionName
``` go
func (ver GracefulApplication) VersionName() string
```
VersionName returns the version name.



## type HandleFunc
``` go
type HandleFunc func(http.ResponseWriter, *http.Request, url.Values)
```
HandleFunc provides the implementation for an API endpoint.
The values include both the querystring and path parameter values.











## type Handler
``` go
type Handler func(*Context) error
```
Handler defines the controller handler signatures.
Controller handlers accept a context and return an error.
The context provides typed access to the request and response state. It implements
the golang.org/x/net/context package Context interface so that handlers may define
deadlines and cancelation signals - see the Timeout middleware as an example.
If a controller handler returns an error then the application error handler is invoked
with the request context and the error. The error handler is responsible for writing the
HTTP response. See DefaultErrorHandler and TerseErrorHandler.











## type JWTSigner
``` go
type JWTSigner struct {
    // Header is the name of the HTTP header which contains the JWT.
    // The default is "Authentication"
    Header string
    // Format represents the format used to render the JWT.
    // The default is "Bearer %s"
    Format string
    // contains filtered or unexported fields
}
```
JWTSigner implements JSON Web Token auth.











### func (\*JWTSigner) RegisterFlags
``` go
func (s *JWTSigner) RegisterFlags(app *cobra.Command)
```
RegisterFlags adds the "--jwt" flag to the client tool.



### func (\*JWTSigner) Sign
``` go
func (s *JWTSigner) Sign(req *http.Request) error
```
Sign adds the JWT auth header.



## type Middleware
``` go
type Middleware func(Handler) Handler
```
Middleware represents the canonical goa middleware signature.









### func NewMiddleware
``` go
func NewMiddleware(m interface{}) (mw Middleware, err error)
```
NewMiddleware creates a middleware from the given argument. The allowed types for the
argument are:

- a goa middleware: goa.Middleware or func(goa.Handler) goa.Handler

- a goa handler: goa.Handler or func(*goa.Context) error

- an http middleware: func(http.Handler) http.Handler

- or an http handler: http.Handler or func(http.ResponseWriter, *http.Request)

An error is returned if the given argument is not one of the types above.




## type MissingVersionHandler
``` go
type MissingVersionHandler func(*Context, string)
```
MissingVersionHandler defines the function that handles requests targetting a non
existant API version.











## type MultiError
``` go
type MultiError []error
```
MultiError records multiple errors.











### func (MultiError) Error
``` go
func (m MultiError) Error() string
```
Error summarizes all the underlying error messages in one JSON array.



## type OAuth2Signer
``` go
type OAuth2Signer struct {
    // RefreshURLFormat is a format that generates the refresh access token URL given a
    // refresh token.
    RefreshURLFormat string
    // RefreshToken contains the OAuth2 refresh token from which access tokens are
    // created.
    RefreshToken string
    // contains filtered or unexported fields
}
```
OAuth2Signer enables the use of OAuth2 refresh tokens. It takes care of creating access
tokens given a refresh token and a refresh URL as defined in RFC 6749.
Note that this signer does not concern itself with generating the initial refresh token,
this has to be done prior to using the client.
Also it assumes the response of the refresh request response is JSON encoded and of the
form:


	{
		"access_token":"2YotnFZFEjr1zCsicMWpAA",
		"expires_in":3600,
		"refresh_token":"tGzv3JOkF0XG5Qx2TlKWIA"
	}

where the "expires_in" and "refresh_token" properties are optional and additional
properties are ignored. If the response contains a "expires_in" property then the signer
takes care of making refresh requests prior to the token expiration.











### func (\*OAuth2Signer) Refresh
``` go
func (s *OAuth2Signer) Refresh() error
```
Refresh makes a OAuth2 refresh access token request.



### func (\*OAuth2Signer) RegisterFlags
``` go
func (s *OAuth2Signer) RegisterFlags(app *cobra.Command)
```
RegisterFlags adds the "--refreshURL" and "--refreshToken" flags to the client tool.



### func (\*OAuth2Signer) Sign
``` go
func (s *OAuth2Signer) Sign(req *http.Request) error
```
Sign refreshes the access token if needed and adds the OAuth header.



## type ResettableDecoder
``` go
type ResettableDecoder interface {
    Decoder
    Reset(r io.Reader)
}
```
The ResettableDecoder is used to determine whether or not a Decoder can be reset and
thus safely reused in a sync.Pool











## type ResettableEncoder
``` go
type ResettableEncoder interface {
    Encoder
    Reset(w io.Writer)
}
```
The ResettableEncoder is used to determine whether or not a Encoder can be reset and
thus safely reused in a sync.Pool











## type SelectVersionFunc
``` go
type SelectVersionFunc func(*http.Request) string
```
SelectVersionFunc is used by the default goa mux to compute the API version targetted by
a given request.
The default implementation looks for a version as path prefix.
Alternate implementations can be set using the DefaultMux SelectVersion method.









### func CombineSelectVersionFunc
``` go
func CombineSelectVersionFunc(funcs ...SelectVersionFunc) SelectVersionFunc
```
CombineSelectVersionFunc returns a SelectVersionFunc that tries each func passed as argument
in order and returns the first non-empty string version.


### func HeaderSelectVersionFunc
``` go
func HeaderSelectVersionFunc(header string) SelectVersionFunc
```
HeaderSelectVersionFunc returns a SelectVersionFunc that looks for the version in the header with
the given name.


### func PathSelectVersionFunc
``` go
func PathSelectVersionFunc(pattern, zeroVersion string) SelectVersionFunc
```
PathSelectVersionFunc returns a SelectVersionFunc that uses the given path pattern to extract the
version from the request path. Use the same path pattern given in the DSL to define the API base
path, e.g. "/api/:version".
If the pattern matches zeroVersion then the empty version is returned (i.e. the unversioned
controller handles the request).


### func QuerySelectVersionFunc
``` go
func QuerySelectVersionFunc(query string) SelectVersionFunc
```
QuerySelectVersionFunc returns a SelectVersionFunc that looks for the version in the querystring
with the given key.




## type ServeMux
``` go
type ServeMux interface {
    http.Handler
    // Handle sets the HandleFunc for a given HTTP method and path.
    Handle(method, path string, handle HandleFunc)
    // Lookup returns the HandleFunc associated with the given HTTP method and path.
    Lookup(method, path string) HandleFunc
}
```
ServeMux is the interface implemented by the service request muxes. There is one instance
of ServeMux per service version and one for requests targetting no version.
It implements http.Handler and makes it possible to register request handlers for
specific HTTP methods and request path via the Handle method.









### func NewMux
``` go
func NewMux(app *Application) ServeMux
```
NewMux returns the default service mux implementation.




## type Service
``` go
type Service interface {
    // Logging methods, configure the log handler using the Logger global variable.
    log.Logger

    // Encoding manages the service decoders and encoders.
    Encoding

    // Name is the name of the goa application.
    Name() string

    // Use adds a middleware to the service-wide middleware chain.
    Use(m Middleware)

    // ErrorHandler returns the currently set error handler, useful for middleware.
    ErrorHandler() ErrorHandler

    // SetErrorHandler registers the service-wide error handler.
    SetErrorHandler(ErrorHandler)

    // SetMissingVersionHandler registers the handler invoked when a request targets a
    // non existant API version.
    SetMissingVersionHandler(MissingVersionHandler)

    // ServeMux returns the service mux.
    ServeMux() ServeMux

    // ListenAndServe starts a HTTP server on the given port.
    ListenAndServe(addr string) error

    // ListenAndServeTLS starts a HTTPS server on the given port.
    ListenAndServeTLS(add, certFile, keyFile string) error

    // ServeFiles replies to the request with the contents of the named file or
    // directory. The logic // for what to do when the filename points to a file vs. a
    // directory is the same as the standard http package ServeFile function. The path
    // may end with a wildcard that matches the rest of the URL (e.g. *filepath). If it
    // does the matching path is appended to filename to form the full file path, so:
    // 	ServeFiles("/index.html", "/www/data/index.html")
    // Returns the content of the file "/www/data/index.html" when requests are sent to
    // "/index.html" and:
    //	ServeFiles("/assets/*filepath", "/www/data/assets")
    // returns the content of the file "/www/data/assets/x/y/z" when requests are sent
    // to "/assets/x/y/z".
    ServeFiles(path, filename string) error

    // Version returns an object that implements ServiceVersion based on the version name.
    // If there is no version registered, it will instantiate a new version.
    Version(name string) ServiceVersion

    // Decode uses registered Decoders to unmarshal a body based on the contentType
    Decode(v interface{}, body io.Reader, contentType string) error

    // NewController returns a controller for the resource with the given name.
    // This method is mainly intended for use by generated code.
    NewController(resName string) Controller
}
```
Service is the interface implemented by all goa services.
It provides methods for configuring a service and running it.









### func New
``` go
func New(name string) Service
```
New instantiates an application with the given name and default decoders/encoders.


### func NewGraceful
``` go
func NewGraceful(name string, cancelOnShutdown bool) Service
```
NewGraceful returns a goa application that uses a graceful shutdown server.




## type ServiceVersion
``` go
type ServiceVersion interface {
    // Encoding manages the version decoders and encoders.
    Encoding

    // VersionName returns the version name.
    VersionName() string

    // ServeMux returns the version request mux.
    ServeMux() ServeMux
}
```
ServiceVersion is the interface for interacting with individual service versions.











## type Signer
``` go
type Signer interface {
    // Sign adds required headers, cookies etc.
    Sign(*http.Request) error
    // RegisterFlags registers the command line flags that defines the values used to
    // initialize the signer.
    RegisterFlags(cmd *cobra.Command)
}
```
Signer is the common interface implemented by all signers.











## type TypedError
``` go
type TypedError struct {
    ID   ErrorID
    Mesg string
}
```
TypedError describes an error that can be returned in a HTTP response.











### func (\*TypedError) Error
``` go
func (t *TypedError) Error() string
```
Error builds an error message from the typed error details.



### func (\*TypedError) MarshalJSON
``` go
func (t *TypedError) MarshalJSON() ([]byte, error)
```
MarshalJSON implements the json marshaler interface.









- - -
Generated by [godoc2md](http://godoc.org/github.com/davecheney/godoc2md)
